As current musicians, one of our biggest chalenges when it comes to playing and preforming music is the act of flipping to the next page. The fact is, most of the time these flips are not possible without a small pause or having another player that's sole purpose is to turn pages. This is ineffient and distractig to the musician, not giving them the oppportunity to fully express their talents. This inspired us to build this project, because we knew there was a better way.

This project uses a mobile application to take inputs from user about the song (i.e. time signature, number of beats, and tempo) and calculates the estimated time between page flips when it is time for a flip, the application sends a signal to a Bluetooth module connected to the main Arduino board. As back-up, SwiftNotes uses audio and pressure sensors (via a pedal) to also act as a trigger for a page flip. The user simply steps of a pedal or says "flip" into the mic to trigger a flip. These options will be dependent on the type of instrument played (eg. woodwind players can not use the mic and piano players cannot use the pedal.) When a flip is signalled via the methods above, the Arduino runs a series of motor movements to flip a page.

The mobile application is built using MIT App Inventor, which connected the mobile device to the Bluetooth module and gave the user a better UI. The pedal uses a limit switch to easily detect a step, then sends a signal to the Arduino. The Arduino is what controls the page flip, which happens by moving a series of motors and servos to flip a single page a time.

As this was made within 24 hours, we had abitious ideas that were unrealistic within the time frame, and thus we beleive there are a few imporments that could be added to our project. To further advance our project, the next steps include adding a speaker and hence, a metronome to serve as a better music player. this feature would better synchronize the player with the timer. Secondly, the addition of an upgraded microphone would increase the sensitivity level while drastically increasing the strength-to-noise ratios. This would yield more accurate page flipping. Third, adding image processing algorithms allows our project to take pictures of the music sheet and automatically recognize key music features, suchlike BPM, bar numbers, etc. deeming a more friendly user interface. Lastly, an extension of untitled is the generalized application of books rather than music sheets exclusively; particularly convenient for people in general and aids in people who may be impaired mobility-wise.
